For this first exercise in this chapter,
we are going to rewrite
the guessing game program, we wrote in the
exercises of the last chapter.
This time, we are going to use a while
loop, rather than nested if statements.
And you'll see how concise, easy to read
and easy to understand, the program is.
So, lets get started.
We'll call this chap 7, ex1.
py.
If you remember we're going to give the
user three tries to
try to, guess the name of the computer
that played on Jeopardy.
So, we're gonna start off with the
variable tries and set it to 0.
The answer to the question is Watson.
So, we'll set that variable up.
And
here's our loop.
While tries is listed and are equal to 3.
First, ask the user the question.
What is the name of the computer, that
played on Jeopardy?
And
we'll get that response.
Using raw_input, and we write if, response
equals Watson print.
That is right.
Elif tries equals three.
In other words, I have tried three times.
And I just thought of a little bug in the
program, [SOUND] at
least the way that I have it imagined that
I need to fix.
I'll mention that in a second,
print, sorry, the answer is Watson.
Else, print sorry.
Try again.
The bug that I found is that we need to,
increment tries.
So, right here, we need to, write tries is
equal to tries, plus 1.
And we're gonna test this out, then we'll
see if it's right or not.
So, let's exit and save the file.
Now, let's run the program.
So, the first time through we'll say,
Watson.
Aha, now, there's another bug, so let's
fix that.
Let's just hit Ctrl+ C to get out, go back
to our code, and
right here, we'll enter a break.
So,
let's exit and save, let's clear the
screen, run it again.
Right, so the program stops, so that's
great.
Run it again, this time we'll say, Eniac.
This time let's say, Watson.
Okay, so it works fine on the second try
also.
Let's clear the screen.
So let's go three tries, so, the first
time we'll say, Eniac.
This time we'll say, Deep Blue, this time
we'll
say Watson, and we got it on the third
try.
So now let's try it one more time and
let's get it wrong each time.
Eniac, Deep Blue, Bell.
And then it says sorry, the answer is
Watson, because that was after the third
try.
But, notice that again, it took us back
into the loop.
So, we need another break,
we won't test this one, right here, to end
the program.
The only natural break in this loop, is
when tries, becomes 3.
And notice we have to say less than or
equal to
3, because they can get it right on the
third try.
But, you notice that we test right here,
and so on the third try if it's not
right, there's no sense of giving them a
fourth try, and then stop before we get
there.
So, that's why, we put the tries equal 3
here and say, sorry the answer is Watson,
and break.
Notice how, easier to understand this
program was, than the
version in chapter 6, where we had, nested
if else statement.
As I said back in that exercise, a loop
was a more natural way to write this
program.
And that's what we did right here.
So, that's our guessing game written in a
loop, and now we're gonna move to
the, next exercise of the chapter where
we're going to write, a very simple
calculator.